---
title: Cascading Awakenings
date: November 03, 2016
excerpt: I woke up at 2 A.M. to an extremely turbulent thunderstorm.
synopsis: A man gets stuck in an endless series of false awakenings.
---

My room is built as a standalone watchtower stationed on top of a single two-storey structure, separated from our main house. Underneath my room is an open garage where my motorcycle and bicycle are parked, along with all sorts of storage. The room is accessible through an outside staircase. Our whole yard is protected by a relatively high concrete wall, but behind that wall is a 10-foot-deep trench with a shallow, quiet creek at the bottom.

I woke up at 2 A.M. to an extremely turbulent thunderstorm. Only the silhouette of tall coconut trees dancing and bending from the powerful winds, which almost seem to whistle, can be seen from my window. A pitch-black, moonless night engulfed the rest of my view. I turned my desk lamp on to see some of my important papers soaking wet from a new leak in the ceiling. I set them away to dry off. I returned to my bed and kept still, fully covered, turning sick with apprehension from previous traumatic experiences with devastating typhoons. I was afraid that the huge tree next to my room would come crashing down in my direction and kill me. Several minutes later, I managed to fall asleep.

I woke up at 5:30 A.M. The sun hadn't risen yet, but a lifeless grey enveloped the whole dawn sky. It was no longer raining. Everything appeared normal in my room; the damp papers were where I had left them, the leak had gotten a bit worse, and faint music played from my laptop. Except the window to my left was hanging wide open. Odd, but I suppose the winds caused it to swing. I shut it and went for the door.

Ever imagined yourself opening your door, only to find your room floating in the expanse of nowhere? What I saw next was something close to that. The murky brown water of the creek had long risen above the walls of the 10-foot-deep trench. Heavy rainfall often causes it to rise, but never anywhere near above the ditch. Not only did it rise above it, but the 1st floor of our house and my watchtower were also completely submerged, including the entire staircase. The deluge was dreadfully silent and still.

I was stuck in my room wondering if my family was already awake and aware of the flood, but I checked my phone and there were no text messages from them. I took a look outside again to inspect the surroundings, climbing the white concrete block next to the staircase to see what it looked like behind my room. Right in front of me, suddenly out of nowhere, was a huge, white floating platform, about 20 feet above, next to my room. It produced a torrent of crystal clear water that was soundlessly gushing down to the creek like an artificial waterfall. From where I stood, I could not see where the plethora of water was being generated. Shortly thereafter, I heard my family from somewhere downstairs, casually talking about the flood. I cannot imagine how that was possible; they were quite articulate to be underwater.

I woke up at 5:30 A.M. The sun hadn't risen yet, but a lifeless grey enveloped the whole dawn sky. It was no longer raining. Everything appeared normal in my room; the damp papers were where I had left them, the leak had gotten a bit worse, and faint music played from my laptop. Except the window to my left was hanging wide open. Odd, but I suppose the winds caused it to swing. I shut it and went for the door.

Everything appeared normal outside. There was no flood and the creek was surging, but it stayed at the bottom of the waterway, far from posing an alarming threat. It was nowhere near the mouth of the 10-foot-deep trench, let alone above it. I climbed the white concrete block again, to make sure there were no white, floating platforms and torrents of waterfalls near my room. It was all gone. Was it just a product of my own imagination? The confusion was obnoxiously hurting my brain. I went back to bed, hoping to make more sense of it later.

I woke up at 5:30 A.M. to an extremely turbulent thunderstorm. Only the silhouette of tall coconut trees dancing and bending from the powerful winds, which almost seem to whistle, can be seen from my window. A pitch-black, moonless night engulfed the rest of my view. I turned my desk lamp on to see some of my important papers soaking wet from a new leak in the ceiling. I set them away to dry off. _Wait, what the fuck?_ I swear this already happened earlier. I decided to open the door.

There was no flood. Our 1st floor is not submerged, but I could hear the raging flow of the creek in the darkness. It always terrified me how my room stood next to it, right on the edge of the ditch. For all I know, the walls of my room could collapse at any moment, and the raging creek would inevitably swallow it whole. I grabbed the flashlight above my cabinet, which was, oddly enough, always conveniently next to me whenever I needed it, and flicked it on, hovering it above the creek.

All I saw below the ditch was pure darkness. There was no water, and the light of my flashlight did not seem to hit the bottom. It must be far deeper than I imagined. Strangely, I could definitely hear the sound of surging water from the trench, but no matter how far I swung my flashlight, it was just an empty, black ditch. The heavy rainfall continuously pattered against my exposed arm. I accidentally dropped the flashlight over the ditch, which seemed to fall endlessly until I could no longer see the light it emitted. With the powerful winds growing stronger by the second and the roaring thunderclaps growing in frequency, I gave up and went back inside.

I wiped my arm off with a towel and fumbled for my phone. I tried to call my family from the main house, but they did not answer. I assumed they were all in deep slumber, so I simply sent a text message asking how they were doing and placed the phone on my desk. It was not the time to smoke a cigarette, but I lit one up. Faint music played from my laptop. _There's still power, thank god._ I puffed and puffed until I felt drowsy and tired enough to return to bed.

I woke up at 5:30 A.M. Everything was normal in my room this time. But I did not move from my position. There is no way in hell I am going to open that door.
