---
title: The End of Worlds
date: February 21, 2017
excerpt: The Muskians were not ready to discard their deep-rooted belief in a flat Earth.
synopsis: The apocalypse has come. Two polarising scientists wage a psychological war for the destiny of humanity.
---

It was around the 2020s (exact year unknown) when the world seemed to have taken a massive crash from its exponential leap in technological advancement by being in an utter state of ruin: the oceans were dark red and the terrains a post-apocalyptic pandemonium, with no presidents and governments, no tyrants to rule over proles in dystopian storylines, and most definitely no times of peace. The Great Meteor, as everyone called it, had ravaged the planet and almost deadened the entire human race, save for a few left. Electrical power went extinct, turning metropolises into ghost towns and ghost towns into shambles of nothingness. Its vehement power ironically earned it a positive label, much like how malevolent hurricanes had very innocuous names like Katrina and Yolanda.

During these times, two remarkable humans changed the entire course of human history.

Behind the prevailing belief that the Earth is flat (in fact, the planet had been renamed to "Flat Earth") and that the 1969 moon landing is a hoax, is Dr. Irving, a geologist revered by the Saved Ones (a term used for the remaining population) for his unique scientific parlance. Not a single soul really understood what he meant with his words whenever he spoke, but a lexicon so wide surely must be indicative of profound and superior intellect, and for that, he was admired.

Great minds are born with great rivals. His most ferocious critic, Dr. Musk, was the only remaining astronaut in the world who personally witnessed the Flat Earth from a distance in space and saw that it was actually a globe, yet no one believed him for his ineloquent manner of speaking and his lack of persuasive charisma. He repeatedly called Dr. Irving’s theories of Flat Earth and Moon-hoax a "flat-out lunacy", and for that, he was reviled. A paranoid visionary who always spoke of the Second Coming as a much larger asteroid destined to annihilate humankind down to the last person, Dr. Musk’s life goal was to be the first person to fly and land on Mars and to be the progenitor of an interplanetary species. This would also ultimately bring Dr. Irving down to his demise as the evidence of Flat Earth’s roundness unfolds in their very eyes once spacefaring becomes available.

Two of the greatest scientific discoveries in one stone: a combination of Galileo Galilei, Neil Armstrong, and Nostradamus.

This powerful ambition and desire of Dr. Musk to succeed had been nothing short of fruitful either: making use of Ockham’s Razor to shave the tangles of his main problem, i.e., the limitations of spacetime, it was only a matter of finding the perfect balance between sacrificing spacecraft speed for the size and mass the spacecraft requires to sustain one human being. In his later years, he successfully created the Musk Machine (he was as bad in naming things as good as he was in inventing them): with threefold the speed and one-fourth the mass of Alexandria, the only post-Great Meteor spacecraft which burst like fireworks as it entered the thermosphere, it was entirely possible to get into Mars in a staggeringly short amount of time. His rough estimations indicated that it would only take less than two years of travel time.

Seeing his dreams materialize this way, he was ready to dispute his rival’s most deeply-held belief and become the greatest scientist in the world.

Dr. Irving was not one to let his power go down the drain. Shortly after Dr. Musk announced the schedule of his lift-off, which no one really paid attention to, Dr. Irving approached him.

"How certain are you," Dr. Irving started with a dubious expression, "that this time capsule of yours will even get you through the burning strip of the Flat Earth’s sky like the Alexandria? A lunatic ambition, all of it, to reach for the moon and the stars and expect yourself not to burn or be blinded by their brilliance, and even, say, you were to make it to Martian terrain, what would you do there? Die of radiation? Die of boredom?"

"It’s not a time capsule. And I saw it all before, and I will see it again," Dr. Musk responded tersely and vaguely, but with brimming confidence, "and you will, too. Everyone will."

"There is not a need for them to see it, for they already willed themselves to believe otherwise — to believe my words — and they will doubt the efficiency of your creation in the first place. Just look at how no one believes you. Then I simply have to utter one word and they will set themselves on a frenzied mission to destroy this mad invention of yours," Dr. Irving was almost screaming his lungs off.

"Not everyone believes you, my dear archnemesis," Dr. Musk said, to Dr. Irving’s great annoyance. "I want to ask of you," he continued, "What is your goal exactly? From peddling all these endless lies to reinforcing these ideas that you yourself do not even believe?"

"Oh, but who says that I do not believe in them?" Dr. Irving fired back. "That the Flat Earth is flat, there is no hardcore proof that says otherwise. How do we stand and move around if we are on a globe? Do not even get me started with gravity: an invisible invention of those who wielded power all the same!" He paused before continuing. "And the moon landing, a hoax so precisely orchestrated to fool the masses into thinking that we are far ahead than we really are, and you actually believe you can set foot on Mars! Quite astonishing, your faith in things!"

He continued rambling, "All these wicked, evil systems that existed in the pre-Great Meteor, the mass mind-conditioning in schools, the mass mind-control by the media, I say they had it coming. The kind of cleansing that was necessary to eliminate those in power and put our species back to Year One. The Saved Ones now have minds of their own, free from any form of control, and I say that is good. And do not dare equate me with the ruling class of the past. I proclaim the truth, and the truth only."

"Abomination! Lies! Nonsense! You only talk good!" Dr. Musk was frantic, and all of this only fanned the flames of his burning passion to disprove his conspiracies altogether. He walked out and had no interest in talking further.

Only a few weeks left before his scheduled lift-off, a month after his encounter with Dr. Irving, the unimaginable happened: a group of stargazing enthusiasts who called themselves NASA (short for Newbie Astronomers and Star Admirers), with their makeshift telescopes, detected an asteroid far greater in size than the Great Meteor. It already had entered the Solar System. Their equipment was not capable of detecting its trajectory, but intuition dictated that it was unmistakably Flat Earth-bound, the one home of the Saved Ones. It was also much faster than they imagined, for it would hit the Flat Earth in approximately two years during the time of the Syzygy: the alignment of all nine planets.

Bedlam ensues. Dr. Irving’s efforts to calm the populace down and prevent hysteria were futile, and many were finding themselves converting and believing the word of Dr. Musk. The great divide spawned two groups: Irvingians and Muskians.

The Muskians were not ready to discard their deep-rooted belief in a Flat Earth so easily, but some of them maintained a neutral stance and were ready to change their minds in the face of new evidence. The Irvingians, on the other hand, were staunch loyalists of the beliefs Dr. Irving spouted, claiming that the evidence of a /flat/ Flat Earth is right on our feet and that the burden of proof lies in the Muskians. The asteroid prediction was only a matter of luck, according to them.

Dr. Musk immediately asked the help of the Muskians to build more Musk Machines to save as many lives as possible, while the Irvingians resigned to their fate and accepted that they were going to be the last humans on the face of Flat Earth, unwilling to believe that the Musk Machines will work. This relentless period was called the End of Days.

Three weeks after the End of Days had begun, the asteroid became visible in the night sky. Dr. Musk boarded his Musk Machine and took off from the Flat Earth.

Moments later, NASA confirmed, with their makeshift telescopes, that he had succeeded in passing through the layered atmosphere.

Violence erupted in an instant as Dr. Irving immediately commanded his followers to subjugate the Muskians, knowing that they still vastly outnumbered them. There weren’t enough Musk Machines yet for all Irvingians, so they seized the chance to enslave the Muskians to build the machines for them. Under harsh working conditions, the Muskians reluctantly followed their orders, with their prodigious leader out of reach and unstoppable at this point. It only took three more months to build enough Musk Machines to occupy all of the Irvingians and send them to Mars. During the time these machines were being built, they allocated sufficient resources to keep them alive for a very long time after making landfall on the red planet. One by one, the Irvingians boarded the Musk Machines and flew up to the sky. Dr. Irving volunteered to remain on Flat Earth until the last Irvingian had taken off the planet.

With all of the technological resources stripped by the Irvingians from Flat Earth, the Muskians had nothing left to build their own Musk Machines with. Tired and weathered from all immense labor and suffering, they were too powerless to fight against the remaining Irvingians. All hope seemed lost. Their leader still had a year and a half left before setting foot on Mars, and even if he succeeded, he would not return to the Flat Earth to save his people after having exhausted his spacecraft’s fuel and oxygen supply. Then, it would only take months before the Irvingians occupied the Martian terrain. They refuse to imagine what would be done to Dr. Musk once they colonize the planet.

Soon enough, all the Irvingians were spacefaring, including Dr. Irving himself. All the Irvingians finally saw the Flat Earth for its true shape: a slightly titled oblate spheroid. Awed upon witnessing the magnificence of the blue planet and paired with the realization that they had been believing a lie all their lives, their mouths gaped wide open and their pupils dilated, too stunned and speechless to say a word.

Dr. Irving had a different reaction. He remained stoic and indifferent, as if the revelation was already in his knowledge all along, and that none of it really mattered. He has strong confidence that the Irvingians, despite his shattered credibility as a geologist, would continue regarding him as their savior for commanding excellent leadership in avoiding the apocalypse.

⁂
Two years passed. The enormous floating rock was visible to the naked eye at different times of the day. The Muskians that remained on Flat Earth had no news or knowledge about Dr. Musk, Dr. Irving, and all the Irvingians. If the former’s estimations proved accurate, all of them must have landed on the red planet by now. With the impending Doomsday right in their sky, they had nothing else left to do but wait and make the remaining days count before their eventual extinction. There was less than a week left before the Syzygy, the event predicted to coincide with the apocalypse.

Now, all hope that was left is truly gone.

The Newbie Astronomers and Star Admirers, or NASA, suddenly went frantic and excited and collectively gasped in amazement upon the huge discovery of their leader, Leoncio Luciferous, as he was monitoring the Syzygy: an anomalous ripple was detected in the gravitational waves of the gas giant Jupiter. The asteroid belt was torn in the middle of Mars and Jupiter, leaving a huge gap on its two ends as if it was unfastened by the Solar System, and the asteroid that was predestined to bring humanity to its knees was — as if pushed by the fingertips of God — propelled into an entirely new trajectory, making a turn so sharp it could cut the spatial fabric open with its sudden spike of heat.

NASA and the Muskians were overjoyed upon Luciferous’ announcement that the asteroid was no longer aiming for the Flat Earth. A thick slice of the remaining human population would be saved, including its only self-nurturing, self-growing habitat, the Flat Earth. The chaotic firestorm that would ensue on a post-asteroid Flat Earth, the annihilation of all life save for a few extremophiles, went from being the foreseeable future to a mere erroneous premonition. The Saved Ones could once again start anew, spawning future generations and shaping new civilizations from the ground up with what they had left. As they pondered upon the bright future ahead of them, they could not help but wonder how Dr. Musk and all the others were doing on their neighboring planet.

With just a few days left before Syzygy, NASA’s Luciferous was seen fumbling through the stone walls of their chamber by his colleagues, sweating profusely, mumbling to himself incoherently. Halting the activity of the surprised crowd in front of him, he cleared his throat and began speaking, with a face and voice that contained the strangest emotion of all, his words being suffocated out of his lungs, that the approximate trajectory of the asteroid was finally calculated and confirmed: it was now headed for the fourth planet of the Solar System.
