---
title: The Mysterious Grandfather Clock
date: March 19, 2017
excerpt: I thought it was alive, how it stared back to me with such spellbinding allure.
synopsis: A 17th-century grandfather clock in an antique shop appears to be a time machine.
---

There is something rejuvenating about collecting mementos older than everyone alive today, anything made before the 20th century, knowing that those generational heirlooms witnessed the very histories written in our school textbooks as they unfolded. You feel like you are a part of the historical narrative. I own a coin manufactured in the late quarter of the 19th century; I imagine that particular coin went through the palm and pocket of the great revolutionary leader, Andres Bonifacio himself, and how, materially, we are not that far apart. It was a gift from my uncle to me, right before my family and I moved to Legazpi City in 2004.

There is a quiet drive away from downtown full of antique shops that I frequently pass through during the sunset after work, some of which I never see open. Until today. I would not notice one of these perpetually closed shops being open if not for the absence of the sign that it was, well, closed. It was worth a shot. I parked my motorcycle next to the porch and stepped through the door.

The doorknob almost broke as I gave the creaking wooden door a good shove to get inside. There lingered a musky ambiance of abandonment, but there were all sorts of vintage items properly arranged and displayed around the shop. Dust particles were visibly suspended in the amber sunlight. No one seemed to be around, but I moved and went over the displays anyway. Age-old amulets hovered in fast-declining wooden boards, weapons and paintings were suspended over the walls, phonographs and typewriters rested on the acacia table, and a chandelier lathered with cobwebs loomed above them all. But only one thing caught my eye.

The grandfather clock had something mystifying about it. It was taller than me, and I stood 6 flat. Its face had imprints of Roman numerals, the hand patterns intricate. For a moment I thought it was alive, how it stared back to me with such spellbinding allure. Normally a clock or a wristwatch is nothing but an invention to measure time, but this grandfather clock felt different. Different in such a way that it must have created time itself. That was how powerful it felt. I decided to glance over the long case a bit more, shifting its massive weight by a few angles to have a peek beneath it. It bore a little cursive carving in gold behind: _1617_. Exactly four hundred years ago! And my memory may be fuzzy, but I somewhat remember grandfather clocks being invented later on in that same century. Which meant this was… older than the very first of its manufactured kind. How was this possible? Was it intended to deceive others?

I shoved the grandfather clock back against the wall. It was so heavy and massive that I had to plump myself down on the floorboard to catch my breath. I thought about the year scribbled behind it and wondered if the horologists simply made an honest mistake. It was about to sound off its hourly chime sequence so I decided to wait and stare blankly at the swinging pendulum. _Bong!_

What happens next was nothing short of extraordinary and fantastic. My whole body, my being, was suddenly _drawn_ into the face of the grandfather clock. It _absorbed_ me.

Nothing makes sense at all. I found myself trapped on a floating Penrose staircase. The dimensions of space were utterly broken: several random grey platforms surrounded me, seemingly unaffected by any gravitational force. They were simply there, suspended in vast, empty space. Not long after, projections of the normal, 3-dimensional world were all over around me, except they took the form of holographic cubes interweaving through each other, only connected by the platforms which I notice are drifting apart from each other, including the one I was standing on.

I leapt from the Penrose stairs to the spiral staircase nearby, which resembled a Mobius strip. Freefall did not exist, it appears, so movement was similar to how astronauts moved in space. The spiral staircase appeared tilted 90 degrees to its left where its railings extended horizontally as it "ascended". I continued walking around it until I made it back to where I came from.

The holographic projections added to the confusion. From what I observed at first, they were random old films being shown in 3D form, but a more scrupulous examination gave it away, and I could no longer believe what I was seeing: transpiring right before my eyes were _real_ events that happened in the past. I walked through one of the holographic cubes and found myself witnessing a monumental event from the past, up close and personal: Adolf Hitler just shot themselves in the head.

I took a step back and reappeared at the "no-freefall space" I was previously in, launching backward at an uncontrollable pace before entering another one of those cubes, hitting my back against a grass field in the process. It was nighttime and I was in a warzone from a century ago: fighters who wielded bolos were everywhere, dead on the ground, blood splattered on dirt. The other fighters were marching on against what looked like an army of soldiers aiming firearms in their direction. I scrambled up and made my way down the hill, tripping and falling over in the process, rolling off until I hit the bottom.

A random portal sent me back once again, and before I could fall into one of those holographic cubes again, I held onto the railings of the spiral staircase that resembled a Mobius strip and embraced it with force as long as I could. I no longer knew what was happening anymore. To make a note of the obvious ones, I am clearly stuck in some sort of 4-dimensional plane in which I could move not only through space, but also through time, but I can only take a glimpse and not directly affect its events and change the course of time, which is evident from how I was unaffected by the firing squad. This was too much to handle, and the only question I cared about at this point was: how am I supposed to get out?

I leapt from one platform to another, crawling and walking and running all over the place, on the vertical pathways and the upside-down courses, making sure to elude the cubes that would send me back in time.

I paused for a moment in one of the passages. In one of the cubes, I see Ferdinand Marcos himself panicking in the halls of the Malacanang Palace, where millions of people rallied outside its gates, forming the largest civil resistance, all to overthrow him from his power. That was something I _needed_ to see! I strayed off my path and made a long jump in its direction, slowly accelerating my drift, until I rolled inside the palace grounds and saw Marcos alone in his quarters.

The president almost committed suicide. A man with immeasurable greed contemplating self-slaughter was not something I really thought existed, but there he was, holding the noose of a rope ready to strangle — tied to a beam on the ceiling — with his two hands. He threw it to the floor and went for the door, ordering one of his men to take the rope away. I followed him. His wife and his son confronted him in the great hall of the palace.

"You must order the air strikes. The general is waiting for your word," his wife angrily declared.

"Father! Now is not the time to be afraid and give in! Twenty years of your unrivaled legacy will go down the drain with your indecisiveness!"

"I don't know," Ferdinand Marcos nervously said. He was deeply, deeply troubled. His family, after all, was his wickedest shoulder devils, prodding him to officially declare a bloody civil war against the masses of the country. I keenly observed his mannerisms, wondering what was keeping him from ordering his men to shoot the protesting civilians.

The First Lady slapped him. "Coward! You are not the Ferdinand Marcos I know! I should have known. No iron fist is impervious to corrosion. You lack so much evil in your heart. What a goddamn disappointment." Her speech was unbelievable, her whole entity possessed by a heartless angel. The son joined his mother in reprimanding him, turning the huge television screen on. Every media outlet showed the massive revolution currently operating in EDSA; rallyists chanting in unison, the frontliners aggressively advancing against the military, and the police force continuously withdrawing. It was a sight to behold, the movement indispersible, so grand and powerful and moving that no person could ever muster all the fortitude and willpower needed to put a halt to it. Maybe seeing this great revolution had put a dent in Ferdinand Marcos' otherwise rational, cold-blooded disposition.

The troubled Ferdinand Marcos turned his back to his family and walked further to some of his formidable men who sported full military gear, armed to the teeth with machine guns and grenades. My blood froze from what I heard next. "Shoot them all," he ordered.

"Yes, sir," his top general replied. "The commander in chief has made his decision. We are to shoot the people and to send them the airstrikes. Do I make myself clear?"

"Sir, yes, sir!" The top-ranked soldiers answered and marched away.

"NO!" I protested. I was of no use, for they could neither see nor hear me. The First Lady and their son were smirking. Ferdinand Marcos returned to them, remaining stoic and expressionless, but I could smell the stench of corruption and see the glow of malevolence beneath his vague, unreadable mien. I quickly made a run for the gigantic doors, passing through the solid matter like I was made of neutrinos, to the streets where the revolution was currently transpiring. I did not know what I was supposed to do, but I had to be there. I no longer cared about getting out. I just had to be with the people, through spirit. And there they were: the millions who gathered themselves together, who had had enough of oppression and authoritarian rule, who willingly risked their lives to topple the most powerful man in the nation. A bloody genocide was about to occur, and my heart was ripped to shreds over the bad news. The wailing masses were finally fighting back against the tyrannical rule, but they were about to be airstriked, and bullets could rain anytime now. Still, I did not wish to be out. I knew this was my darkest nightmare, but if this, indeed, is all just that — a nightmare — then I need to keep on dreaming. But I knew this was all _real_.

I felt a firm tap on my shoulder. Next thing I knew, before I could react, I was forcibly handcuffed. It was Ferdinand Marcos' men — even the top general himself was there — who captured me and coerced me to walk. "Get away from me you fucking scumbags!" I did not usually curse, but my mind went blank at this point. "You fuckers should be glad the millions gathered here today did not bring their own firearms to kill you all!" I was screaming my lungs out for help, but I was invisible to the crowd. They did not seem to notice me nor the police who held me captive.

They shoved me to the ground once we reached an alleyway far from the demonstrators. I was on my knees, my wrists cuffed behind me. This time, a whole platoon of Marcos' soldiers encircled me, guns locked and loaded, ready to fire. It was all happening so fast. Then I felt the cold metal of a gun at the back of my head; all I could hear before the soldier pulled the trigger was the sound of airstrikes being launched in the sky. Then all I saw was smoke.

I woke up in front of the grandfather clock. My temples throbbed in pain. I can still see the auburn sunbeams through the windowpanes of the shop. I quickly rose from where I lay, pulled myself together, and checked the time on the clock, in which its hands were roughly in the same position they were previously in during the time it absorbed me. Time did not move. Relieved and terrified at the same time from what I had just seen, I hastily dashed outside, fumbled for my keys, and skedaddled in my motorcycle.
