---
title: The Men Who Met God
date: March 02, 2017
excerpt: Thorns of grass were prickling on Jesus' face when...
synopsis: Three distinctive men die on Earth. Their souls enter the Kingdom of God.
---

Thorns of grass were prickling on Jesus' face when he awoke and found himself under the shade of a mango tree, one of the many scattered about in the meadow along with patches of daffodils. He wore a faded, featureless pair of jeans and a grey shirt, with no recollection of his last waking moment nor how he ended up here. Shortly he got up and sauntered around the pastures, dazed and unaccustomed to the silence and peacefulness, slowly beginning to savor the gusts of cold breeze with the warmth of morning sunbeams penetrating his flesh. This felt like paradise, he thought to himself.

A tall man with pale white skin appeared near behind him, out of nowhere, and called for his name. Upon turning his back, the tall figure smiled at him, giving a firm embrace and patting on the back, "Jesus! Finally, you've arrived," he said as he let go of Jesus. The tall man introduced himself, "You know me very well, dear. I go by many names, but I am mostly known as Lucifer. Yes, Satan himself, the Angel of Death, Dark Lord of Hell, God's archnemesis, among other silly monikers."

Jesus flinched and shuddered from the revelation, cautiously taking a few steps back. "Oh, those are all just names, believe me," Lucifer said. "I won't do you any harm now, so loosen up." Jesus turned his head left and right, contemplating and calculating, but the grassland looked so vast and endless that making a run for it was pointless. At that moment he felt impotent and vulnerable, eventually resigning to his fate. "Listen, you just met your maker downstairs, and you're about to meet him now, _literally_."

Jesus frowned, attempting with all his power to recall his last moments, all to no avail. Lucifer stepped a little closer, still smiling, and said, "My elder brother is waiting for your arrival. I'll take you to him. Come with me now, quickly." _Elder brother?!_ More questions emerged the more he thought about it, so he withdrew his thoughts and steadily moved forward. Lucifer placed his arm around Jesus' quivering shoulders and gave him a reassuring tap on the chest. "That's the spirit! Literally!"

Lucifer yanked two leaves right before they found themselves under another mango tree, a slightly different one, within a split-second shift in which a fortified stone wall now ran across the entire meadow. A white, nondescript gate stood between the imposing stone walls. Lucifer stepped forward and smiled at Jesus again, "Welcome to the pearly gates of heaven! Beneath that gate lies the Kingdom of God."

As they approached the pearly gates, there were two unfamiliar men talking to an old man — probably the gatekeeper — in the small guardhouse beside it. The men had extreme differences: one looked squeaky clean and affluent, the other filthy, frail, and destitute. The gatekeeper appeared to be busy sifting through a mountain of papers, giving half-hearted answers to both distinctive men. When Lucifer came closer and whispered to the gatekeeper, he immediately gave his full attention with a series of lively nods. When he was finished, he said, "Alright. You first, million-dollar chap. Come with me." The squeaky clean guy hurriedly trailed behind Lucifer through the gates.

The path was straightforward. The stone walls felt alive, gazing down and overlooking, ready to close in on any unworthy trespasser. A few moments later, they were met by a dark gentleman as tall as Lucifer. Unlike Lucifer's clean-shaven white face, the dark man wore a full, majestic white beard like a thick layer of cloud sticking under his chin. "Hello, Beau," the man welcomed with a powerful, deep voice reverberating on the thick walls. "You too, Lucy. I have been waiting all day."

"Sorry about that, Yahweh," Lucifer said as he walked around and stood beside his elder brother. "The third person took me some time to find. So, let us begin!" He exclaimed excitedly.

Beau, the handsome man, gasped and quickly fell to his knees and kissed Yahweh's feet. "Almighty God the Father! Hallelujah! I bow down before you as your unworthy child—"

"Alright, alright," Yahweh interrupted, "Let's cut out the disgusting stuff now. Damn it, I really shouldn't have written down all this nastiness in that stupid book." Lucifer snickered. Beau went back on his feet. "Okay," Yahweh began. "Spill me the details, Lucy."

Lucifer pulled out a little handbook from his back pocket and cleared his throat. "This man appears to have died in a car crash. Before that, he was a best-selling author and orator, a popular dashing dreamboat universally adored by the Roman Catholics. His books and talks were a unique fusion of spiritual dogma and entrepreneurship, or according to his own words, how one would make a fortune and become wealthy and rich, both financially and spiritually, by embodying the values and teachings of Christianity in the modern century." Beau stood in front of Lucifer and Yahweh with a grin plastered across his face and a terrific confidence like no other, proud of his earthly achievements. "This man also appears to be on the list of the top ten richest persons from the country he hails from—"

"Wait... what? That should be enough Lucy," Yahweh interrupted his brother. "Top ten richest? A man who calls himself a preacher? How in heaven's blazes is that possible?" Lucifer shrugged and closed the little handbook, returning it to his pocket.

Beau's grin turned into an uneasy smile, explaining himself as best as he could, "Father Almighty! I have followed Your orders as You pleased! By preaching Your word, inspiring young people to embrace the happiness and love that life offers, and giving them proper advice on investing their money to maximize their profits for a more fulfilling life! This is what You want, right?"

_Idiot!_ Yahweh mused to himself. Lucifer was smiling again when Yahweh spoke, "No... No, I'm afraid you're going to hell, my son."

Beau was completely stunned, his face white like all the blood had drained from him. Yahweh said, "My son, you are terribly mistaken to assume that I would condone a lifestyle of excessive luxury, indulgence, and extravagance. My heart goes out to those who have compassion for the poor, not self-serving, lucrative businessmen, most especially someone who uses My word as his means to maximize his fortune! Have I not stressed this enough in that damn book? Blessed are the poor, cursed are the rich! Your thick skull reads the stupid book every night before you jack off to sleep and you still missed the whole point! Shit!" Yahweh was vehemently furious.

Lucifer chuckled and said, "Your creatures are majestic dolts. I keep telling you, you should have left the design up to me."

Yahweh shoved his palm to his face and sighed in disappointment and frustration. "Fucking millions of people out there eating shit and you have the guts to remain in that bubble of privilege... Fuck! You're going to hell, idiot! He's all yours Lucy! Take him out!" And before Beau could react to Yahweh's barrage of expletives, Lucifer snapped toward his direction where, in an instant, Beau vanished into thin air, presumably sent to hell, and all that was left was billowing smoke.

"I'll bring in the next guy," Lucifer said. He left his fuming brother and went back to the gates. "Skin and bones, you're next." The frail, emaciated person shambled off down the path and followed Lucifer's steps. Jesus was left alone with the old gatekeeper.

Yahweh was still fuming, his rage apparently out of his control. Lucifer introduced the frail man, "Gerardo here appears to be the exact opposite of that man. He was a beggar who starved to death. Most of his life was spent wandering aimlessly on church grounds, taking up the same spot every morning where he held his little plastic cup out to the passing crowd, seeing the same faces of students, laborers, and workers who routinely passed the area every day. He remembers very well the generous folks who always gave their spare change and the heartless souls who shunned him. For his utter lack of blessings, he does not believe in god at all. But he believes I am real," Lucifer finished and closed his handbook.

The frail man was too weak to even speak. "Very well," Yahweh murmured, finally having cooled down from his previous fit. "No question. This poor soul is going to feast to his heart's content, every day, in My Kingdom, and rest on the softest of beds, soft as the clouds on a sunny day, and he will be granted whatever he pleases. That is My reward to him." Yahweh flicked and snapped toward his direction where, in an instant, Gerardo vanished into thin air, undoubtedly sent to paradise, and all that was left was billowing smoke.

No matter what Jesus said, the old gatekeeper never said a word to him. His questions resounded as loud musings in the empty, vacuous air. He knew that eternal judgment was about to be passed onto him, and the painstaking game of waiting spent on ascertaining the unknowable brought a terrible, nauseating discomfort, despite his faithful, consistent obedience to God. "Only God can judge me" was a mantra often employed as a defense for the erring, imperfect human, but only God can judge a person as being deserving of damnation too, he thought. Finally, the gates reopened where Lucifer could be seen emerging, and Jesus' name was called. Before advancing, Jesus' last thoughts were about the two other men who were with him earlier and whether they went to heaven.

"Let me see..." Lucifer went on leafing through his handbook. "Ah, here it is. Jesus here was an ordinary middle-class Christian who led a perfectly normal and balanced life, worked a 9-5 job for his family, and went to Church every Sunday. Jesus' life has, quite impressively, never been tumultuous: he never holds grudges, and he is very quick to forgive, which unfortunately goes along with the propensity for forgetfulness like an unbreakable pair. While he generally sympathizes with the plight of the poor, he silently refuses to acknowledge and help them. He believes that the charity of people richer than himself should suffice."

Jesus felt his conscience prodding on him. He decided not to say anything.

Yahweh pondered in silence for a little while before speaking, "My son, I believe you underestimate my omnipotence... You have submitted to laziness and ignorance, two of which I deem as the true deadliest sins. I shall proclaim to you that the salvation of man lies in his ability to perceive the Bible for its very nature: the glaring obviousness of its falsity and the contradictions weaved all over its passages. That is the true test of faith: non-conformity, rationality, and critical thinking. Ultimately discerning that the Bible is nothing but a very badly written book, a shitty book. Only the poor are exempted from this test of faith: their existence is necessary because poverty is the ultimate argument against my omnibenevolence. And for their hardships, they will all go to heaven."

"Conversely, those who live in comfort happen to ignore the problem of poverty even after I already made it omnipresent, staring them right in their faces. The nerve to call themselves Christians! The comfortable Christian, such as yourself, with no empathy for the poor, is a vain hypocrite. He overestimates his self-worth, justifying his privilege by thanking me, assuming that I provided him a comfortable life because he deserves it." Jesus was simply dumbfounded, and strangely he could see Yahweh gradually losing opacity as he spoke. Jesus could see through him. "As you should know by now, I am a god of the infidels. I am not omnibenevolent, and I do not intervene in human affairs. But I reward rationality, empathy, and acts of selflessness; while I condemn faith, ignorance, and acts of selfishness. Therefore, my judgment is—"

It was when Jesus was about to hear his fate, almost dead from all the waiting, when Yahweh and Lucifer both vanished into thin air, into nonexistence.
